Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to go over template matching template matching is probably the simplest form of what you
could refer to as object detection.
All it does is it simply scans a larger image for a provided template by sliding that template target
image across the larger image.
So if you have a picture of someone's face then what you going to do is you get to take the picture
of that face and then slide across the entire image until you find a match.
Keep in mind it pretty much has to be an exact match.
So that means you already have the image provided for you and it's just a subset.
So we're going to see an example of that in just a little bit.
Now the main option that can be adjusted when it comes to template matching is how are you actually
making that comparison.
Is it a direct one to one per pixel or is there another method.
So all the methods that are used in template matching they're based on some sort of correlation.
So here we can see the different methods that open C-v has available.
These are things like the square difference the normal size squirt the difference the correlation coefficient
and so on.
And there's the mathematical formula for how they're actually calculated.
What we're going to do is we're going explore how well each of these works and we're going to have a
target image.
So what we're going to do is we'll have a target image of a dog's face and then scan a larger image
to see where we actually find the match of the dog's face and then highlight it.
OK.
So let's explore template matching with open Seabee and then head over to Jupiter lab.
OK here I am at a Jupiter lab notebook.
I went ahead and did the main imports that we usually do that CB2 some pies and pea and setting up map
plot lib.
Next we're going to do is actually grab the full image that we're going to be searching for our template
and that's going to be C-v to read an inside of the data folder we provide.
Go ahead and read in the samizdat JPK file.
And then we'll also correct its color so that we can show it will say CB2 CVT color and then pasand
the full image and say see we to color underscore BGR to the right one to RGV.
BGR R.G. be run that and let's go ahead and show off the image and there is so we've seen this image
for its picture my dog Sammy.
Next we're going to do is upload the template image.
So this is going to be a subset of the larger image you're searching.
So what we will do here is say face is equal to CB2 image read.
And this one is data and it's called Samie face and same thing here will say CBT or CB2 CBT color.
We'll take that face and then we'll say CB2 color underscore B G R to R G B and let's show Samis face
and there we have it.
So two important things to notice here one is that this picture of my dog's face Samie the dimensions
of it.
If we check out the shape our 375 for 86 and this is actually the exact size and shape of the face of
Samie within this larger image.
So the full image is quite a bit larger shape here.
We see 1 3 6 7 and 1 0 2 5.
So something that is basically restrictive of template matching is you should have already the exact
image you're looking for which kind of defeats the purpose of a general object detection.
But that's why this is one of the simplest forms of object detection.
You already have part of the image that you're looking for in the larger image.
So all this really is going to do is it's going to take this face they have here the subset template
which is Sammie's face and then it's going to just go like pixel by pixel scanning the image until it
finds a match and the match is going to be based on how it's making its comparison.
And there's different ways we can make that comparison and see whether or not we have a match.
And those are the things we're going to be experimenting with.
OK so one last note I want to do is within this lecture we're going to be using the evil function and
I want to show you quickly what it does.
In case you've ever seen it for if you've already seen the L function you can skip forward but just
in case you haven't seen it yet as you probably know there's built in functions in python like some.
So if I take the sum of a list here it's 6.
Now what I cannot do is do something like this say my string is equal to some and then try to call some
or my string in this fashion.
That doesn't really make any sense right because it is a string that's not actually the function here.
However with this specialized eveil function I can actually evaluate the string as if it was a function.
So I can say evaluate my string and then it gets back OK.
I evaluate the string.
I have a matching function.
I think it's the function of some.
So then I can do the following.
I can say my func is equal to evil.
My string and now my func has been assigned the evaluated string here some so I can actually call it
as a sum.
So I should be able to say one two three with my func and 6.
So that is essentially a way you can directly transform a string that matches a built in function such
as some and then actually run that.
So we'll be using this evil because we're going to have a list of strings and then we're going to evaluate
them all to transform them into open sea functions.
It's just the little cleaners that do it that way instead of calling each one manually.
So keep that in mind if you haven't seen that eveil function.
That's all it's doing it's just evaluating that string for each function call.
OK let's move on.
All right now for the next step I'm actually going to copy and paste the list from our notebook because
there's a bunch of different methods here and we're going to be using them and I want to make sure I
spell them all correctly.
So go ahead and find the cell in the provided notebook from our zip file that has the list of methods.
So here all the methods you can use for the actual comparison of the template matching.
So there's a bunch of different code here you can check the documentation.
We actually showed a picture in the slides before this of the equations that each of these follow.
But we're just going to run through them and see how they perform.
Notice how they're all strings.
And that's where we actually went over the evil function because we're gonna evaluate each strings into
a function.
OK so let's begin.
We're going to make a for loop that goes through each of these methods and then uses template matching
with that particular method.
We will say for an in methods and the first step we're going to do is create a copy of the image.
So this will create a copy of the full image that we've been XLE mess up because we're going to be drawing
a rectangle on the full image for wherever we think we've found the match.
So we first create a copy of the full image that I want the actual function I'm going to be using.
So I will say method is equal to e l m.
So what that means is as we actually loop through the string methods here I'm going to evaluate that
string.
So then it's actually a function.
Ok so we have Eve L M and then the way you actually perform the template matching is the following.
We say the result or Arrius is equal to CB2 match template.
Make sure you spell that right.
You should auto complete that and then you pass in the full larger image.
So in our case we'll be fool.
Copy and then we're going to pass in the smaller image that we're scanning for in this case it's the
face of the dog.
And then you pasand the method you want to use to actually have the selection criteria of whether or
not we think there's a match.
OK so there we have full copy face and method.
Now just really quickly I want to show you the result of what this match template looks like.
So outside of this for loop I'm actually going to select and comment this all just to make another so.
So let's run this.
We'll see.
Fool face and then I'm going to choose one of these methods so let's scrap this.
So it's actually show the way this works will say My method is equal to evil that string and then we'll
person my method here.
OK so if you run this what happens is it takes this full image.
It scans it for where it thinks it found the template match with this face based off the method you
provided.
In our case it's CB2 T.M. c c o e.
For the coefficient there.
So what does this result actually look like.
Well I can plot this out and say Piazzi him show and you'll notice that it's essentially a heat map.
And what this does is it has higher values where it thinks it found the highest correlation of where
the match actually occurred.
It depends on the actual method and the two methods that you squared differences.
These ones squirt difference and tiam squared difference normalized those are going to be slightly different.
Those are actually going to work on where it finds the minimum value.
So keep that in mind.
But for the rest of them it's where it finds the max value.
So it believes that somewhere around here where we have that kind of white yellowish point that's what
it believes it found the highest Mook's maximum value match and that basically corresponds to the top
left corner of the image.
And it actually makes sense because if we take a look at the face versus the original image it should
be somewhere around maybe like 400 in Y and 300 and X of where the actual image starts.
Maybe that face starts around there and if we take a look over here it does appear to be somewhere around
like that 300 300 or through a 200 mark.
So it looks like it's actually matching up well.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to find the maximum and minimum values of this heat map
as well as the maximum minimum value locations and then we'll use those to actually draw out a red rectangle
for where it thinks it found the match of the template.
So I just want to point that out.
This is what the result looks like.
It's essentially a heat map.
And then we're going to grab values from the map and use that to plot out a rectangle on the copy of
the dog image.
So we're coming back to this for in methods and then we're saying the following.
So we just create a full copy.
We just evaluate it.
We just got that heat map.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to grab the minimum and maximum values from that heat
map who will say a little bit tuple impacting here mid value max value.
Min location and then Max location is equal to CV 2 min max L O C and then we're going to pasan that
result.
So what this does is it takes in that heat map and it finds that both the minimum and the maximum locations
and it returns them back as this large tuple that we can then unpack to find the minimum value the maximum
value and then the min and max locations.
So next we need to do is set up everything we need to actually draw that red rectangle and we first
do a little bit of a check here will say if
it in actually we can say if the method.
So if this method that we evaluated right here.
So if that method is in CV to T.M. underscore eschewed the I-F or CB2 thought T.M. underscore squared
difference normalized then we're going to say is that the top left is equal to the minimum location
else for all the other methods will say that the top left of the rectangle is equal to the maximal location.
And that just has to do with the way these maps work for the square different methods.
Because if you square something even if it's negative it ends up positive.
Then these the way they work for the template matching they're actually working on the minimum.
So we use this method right here there's little if else check to say well where does the top left or
a rectangle go.
OK so now that we have that settled we're going to assign the bottom right of the rectangle and do that.
When you do actually get the shape of the rectangle.
So we'll say the following.
We're going to say that the height width and color channels is equal to the face that shape.
So if I take a look at face shape again that's just the actual dimensions plus the three color channels.
So all I'm really concerned about is the high end with their And then what I will do is I will say the
bottom right of this rectangle is equal to the top left index that 0 plus the width and then the top
left index that one plus the height because remember this location value of top left that is essentially
something that looks like this.
It looks like a sort like why comma X so that's why we're able to do this indexing here and actually
kind of rule the strong way should be x y or the width plus the height.
OK.
So that's what the top left looks like.
That's why I'm indexing it like this.
I could just also use tuple and packing here if that's easier for me to understand.
Either way we now have the bottom right in the top left of a rectangle.
So all that's left to do is draw it onto the image and then display the image.
So what we will do is a CB2 rectangle get the full copy of my image of passen the top left or pasand
the bottom right.
And then what it's left is what color I want it to be.
So we'll go ahead and have it be red and that the thickness will be a pretty thick rectangle because
it's a large image so say 10.
And then we just need to plot and show the images we're going to be doing a little bit of map Butler
jujitsu here so you're not too familiar Paul.
Don't worry about these falling comments too much.
Let me get a little bit of space here but pleaded D-cells OK.
So we're going to do it here say Piazzi subplot one to one and then peel T.
Subplot one to two.
And what this says is it just says Give me a plot.
That is one row by two columns.
So we're going to have two images right next to each other left and right.
And then this last one it means grab the first one and this two here means grab the second one.
So on the first one we're going to show that heat map result will say and show the result of the heat
map.
And then will give it the title map of template matching.
So that's essentially the result of the template matching.
And then for the second one what we'll do is say Piazzi show and we'll show the full copy of the full
copy.
Now has a rectangle drawn on it and then let's give that a title c.a.p title detection of template.
I have some of them actually don't perform perfectly.
And then we'll say Piazzi and we'll give it a super title the title above both of these and we'll just
have that be the actual string here so that will be
so title everything with the method used.
And then the last thing I want to do here is in order to actually see and not have these subtitles or
subplots constantly rewrite over each other you need to add in one more line which is realty show.
If you don't have the appeal to that show line then the subplots will constantly be overwriting each
other and you only get one plot at the end.
So I'll say guilty show and then just for a little added spacing I'm going to print two new lines after
each of these pairs of subplots.
OK so let's run this and make sure everything worked.
So we're going to run this.
And there you have it.
So here is the method name.
TMC c o f.
Here's the heat map of the template matching.
And this is where it detected the actual template.
So right off the bat this one is really obvious you can see here it detected a lot of matching over
on this top left corner and then that's where Reijer the actual rectangle.
And there you have it.
It's centered right around the dog's face correctly then for the rest of these.
It looks like it did pretty much the same thing.
But you'll notice some of these it actually detected quite a bit off.
And this one this c c o r r method.
It looks like it was starting to get a match here but it found a lot of different comparisons here on
the matching and maybe it got messed up at the docs for but unfortunately this did not actually detect
the correct template.
So you can see here even when you have an exact carbon copy cut out you're going out to make sure you're
using the right method for whatever pair of images you're working with that this one the normalized
method you can see here really only detected one Max point.
It found that nicely.
And then remember these square differences these are actually working in the opposite way.
So it's looking for the minimum which is why that little circle is dark there and it looks like it found
the match quickly and then squirt difference normally here.
Same deal if found the match correctly.
So one of these this guy and actually it pretty much always since performed pretty badly except the
certain cases the c c o r r method but other than that the rest of them did find the template matching
successfully.
OK.
So that's it for this lecture.
Again the main components here they have to worry about are just matched template.
And then the full image what you're looking for and then the method you decide on you can check out
these six methods and see which one works the best for you.
If you want to grab more information off of this result than you can say minimax location off the result
and then do whatever you want off that.
Just keep in mind that squirt difference methods those should be using minimums to where it found the
match.
OK.
Thanks everyone and we'll see you at the next lecture.